[SPEAKING SPANISH]
It's different.
Maybe they're saying it in Portuguese.
I'm hearing the word over and over.
And I'm like--
[INAUDIBLE]
I don't know.
We're going to do it together.
We're going to figure it out right now.
Because I've never done it.
Experiment.
But what I wanted to tell you is, so in your data sheets,
we're tracking these things.
So if you go to Clevadura Lacos, your yeast,
my lady has already started to fill out what we're doing.
And so here, in [SPANISH] the time that we inoculated
is right now, 10.30.
We added the yeast now.
So a lot of people think right now, 10.30,
is the start of fermentation.
And they say, my fermentation is 36 hours, or whatever.
But if you look at our sheet, we know
that we started pulping at 6, 7 in the morning.
So we've had another extra four hours of like a natural fermentation.
Wild.
And then the coffee came in yesterday.
So this coffee has already had 24 hours of a wild fermentation.
And now we're starting a second one.
So a lot of people start their time at the tank, but the time started at the truck.
My coffee's been active since my truck.
Yeah?
So would you market that as a double fermentation?
- Fermentation?
- You could, you could.
So that's like your artistic side to say,
is it a double fermentation?
Is it a triple fermentation?
Is it a wild and then controlled fermentation mixed?
That's your creativity.
The producers can guess.
So if you want the,
Valeria has the most complete information.
[ Background Conversations ]
Can you please open this for me?
And then come closer to the scale.
And...
Let's see.
Okay, my water's at like six.
[ Speaking Spanish ]
[Spanish]
So the question was, we did the citric with lemon juice, and could we just use citric acid?
So yes, and then the question is how much? I don't know. We're going to find out.
[Spanish]
Let's put it in here.
But I don't know how much to use. So now I have normal water to...
So you're going to add until it reaches 2.
Add until it reaches 2.
How much juice did we put in this one?
2 liters.
And it was 14 of coffee, right?
1.5 liters?
1.5 liters.
7 kilos.
7 kilos of coffee.
And the ratio, how would it always be?
No, it's just to cover.
Another container with another shape, if it's like thinner, maybe I need less liquid to fill.
(speaking in foreign language)
So that's not a ratio that I want you to memorize,
like kilos of cold coffee to citric juice.
It's just enough citric juice to cover it.
So if this had a different shape,
I would need different amount of liquid to cover my coffee.
No specific volume, it's just an eye measurement
of how much liquid does it cover.
And in that one we don't measure the time, right?
We're going to measure it right now.
We're doing like too many things at once.
So this is just water and we're just adding citric acid.
Okay, now we dropped to three.
So we were at six.
So we dropped to three.
And you want two.
I want at least two.
So you don't know if they're friends.
It also depends on the water.
It depends what my starting water is.
So if the water is too hot, I'm going to add a little bit of water.
And then I'm going to add a little bit of citric acid.
what my starting water is. So if the pH of my water is more basic, I need more citric acid.
So I can't tell you always do two grams per liter because it depends on my water.
What I want to do is my pH.
Well, so there's two things we could do. We can decide as a group. If I want to match the juice
of the lemon, I stop at two. If I want a faster reaction, maybe I go lower. Maybe I go 1.5.
So there's two things we could find out. I'll show you why.
I need una cuchara.
Se esta quedando.
There's some that's just like, I don't know if it's not dissolving that much or if it's just the sticker.
[ Background noise ]
>> So I'm still at 2.7, so let's get more.
[ Foreign Language ]
[ Background noise ]
>> Just keep track of how much we're adding.
>> Yeah.
>> So you added 10.4 grams.
>> To 2 liters?
There's 10 of that.
I'm at 2.5.
Two more.
That's five on the dot.
Nice score.
(speaking in foreign language)
It's a buffering capacity, so it just keeps fighting,
even if I'm adding more acid.
So it may not be possible to get that low.
It's just fighting me to incorporate.
So I'm gonna do another five.
At some point, you just give up.
I am a sausage.
It's dropping.
[ Speaking in Spanish ]
is fighting us to change the pH. I don't know how to explain buffering capacity.
Sorry, filter stories.
Otros 10 kilogramos.
Diminishing returns.
And now, before it went down 2 points, and now it went down 1.
From 2.4 to 2.3.
With the same...
No, with the same 10.
We don't have access to other water that is as good.
Distilled water, that would be more...
Let's do another 10.
This is just gonna be thrown in the garbage.
Let's see how, 'cause at some point now
it's not gonna dissolve.
Some point I'm not gonna be able to.
- The scales.
Is it me?
- I'll do 11.
- 11, all right.
(speaking in foreign language)
- Yeah, it's still dissolving.
- Now let's keep going.
I'm gonna go with, it's still dissolving.
- There's no,
[ Inaudible ]
>> Why wouldn't I continually?
>> I want to give it the pH meter because my pH meter is slow.
I don't trust it to keep up so I need to give it a little bit of time to acclimate.
A little breathing space to mix it and then it, but yes, you could also do that.
You could just keep pouring.
If you have a good pH meter, you can keep pouring until you get the pH.
2.1?
Let's keep going.
We're at 40 grams I think?
Uh-huh. Around 10 grams.
I did 10, 10, 11, 9.
That'll be about 50.
- So the lemon is like two, three dollars.
- So two or three dollars to have this much,
or like the free lemons from my garden.
So it's not expensive, you can get the powder.
- Amazon sells it.
- The Colombian Amazon is called Mercado Lumbre,
cray market, but they basically just get things from Amazon
and then like charge us for free.
(laughing)
Dropship.
Yeah.
So now for me it's diminishing return.
So it's still 2.1 even though we've added 50 now.
50, yeah.
We've added 50.
So let's just call it.
I'm going to add it here.
So you've got to just hold the contact.
So, again I just want the contact.
[ Inaudible ]
I don't have to say anything.
He knows what I'm looking for.
He reads my mind.
[ Laughter ]
Okay, so let's try.
Okay, let's see what the third set of letters is.
- That one?
The bricks?
- Mm-hmm.
What do you say, Joey?
So, before you answer,
(speaking in foreign language)
- I see four.
- Four.
- So we have a little bit of a lower range.
- Mm.
[ Background noise ]
- Oh, wow. - It's way clearer than I see with my eyes.
[Spanish]
The brick should be the same.
That's normal. The brick should be the same.
Because this one I added water and citric acid.
This one we added the juice of the lemon, but we're not adding it.
But you added the same amount of liquid in both cases?
Yes.
This one a little less. That was one and a half liters and that was two liters.
So...
But you said that it's not so much that the liquid is heavier in relation to the coffee, but it's more...
It covers it.
It covers everything.
Yes.
[ Inaudible ]
>> Exactly.
So even though it has the same pH, tell us what it is.
>> You mean with the distilled water?
>> You should.
>> Oh. So, 6.5?
>> Almost 7.
>> Yeah.
>> That's because of the sugar in the lemon.
>> What is the focus of measuring this in this situation?
>> So, the situation is both of these have the same pH,
2.1 and 2.0. Same starting pH, but very different bricks. This one is a 7 and this one is a 4.
So if we took these fermentations to the end, if we just were going off the pH, we would say
they're the same. But if we take another measurement, well they're actually very different,
starting with much more concentration here than this one. So it may not mean anything,
you would have to wait till you cup it and then say, do I like one versus the other?
or they taste exactly the same, I can't tell the difference and it doesn't matter.
So it will depend.
[ Inaudible ]
I don't understand. Why?
The change of this with the previous liquid is only water.
So it must be lower because it is liquid.
Of course, not the prix, but the pH.
Ah, the pH.
Yes.
So the pH of the water we put was 2, but I imagine there was a pH already in the solution.
Correct, yes, yes.
So when the total pH is mixed, it will be another.
- Okay.
- Can I also have a question?
If you have here like a little bit more syrup
while you will be fermenting,
the pH will react, the pH will drop differently, right?
- It is, but the goal of this is not a fermentation.
So what I want you guys to do now
is stick your hands in here.
Everybody can stick their hands in here.
You can take turns.
- Ah, it's devastating.
- And what I want you to see is that a lot of these
are almost already free of mucilage.
A lot of these are very,
even you can even touch those,
they're almost dry.
- Oh yeah.
That's kind of quick, isn't it?
- Yeah, it's 30 minutes.
(laughs)
So 2.5 over here, what do we have over here?
[ Background noise ]
>> I'll put it on the side so it's easier.
[ Foreign language ]
>> It's really the least.
>> Exactly.
[ Background noise ]
[ Foreign language ]
[ Inaudible ]
(speaking in foreign language)
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
[Spanish]
Temperature, let's see.
But you said...
Say, one of the tank and another of the...
...of the ambient temperature.
You can take the boxes out, but it's a mess.
Nick?
The ambient temperature meter, I think it's in my suitcase in the...
Okay, temperature of...
23.2
And this one?
How is it?
23.2
It's higher.
23.2?
And the temperature of the other one?
Um...
Right now it's...
[ Inaudible ]
>> Getting warm here.
[Spanish]
[inaudible]
(speaking in foreign language)
[ Inaudible ]
[Spanish]
[ Background noise ]
So what I want to show with these is that just by increasing the acidity, you remove the mucilage.
The mucilage is breaking down. So monitoring the pH is really important in your fermentation
because it lets you know if you're getting close to finishing your fermentation.
So this one is almost ready to wash.
To wash.
Oh, you're not.
Like really dry?
Really dry.
There are still some grains that are still a little bit, but they are few.
How many are of this?
The two, 7 kilos of sculpted wallpaper.
Is it glue?
No, it's glue.
But this glue wouldn't be dry?
No.
Here, when they have the wallpaper, it wouldn't be dry?
No, it's sculpted.
[ Inaudible ]
I wasn't aiming for any pH.
It was just whatever the natural pH of the citrus is, which is a 2.
So this isn't supposed to change.
It's a 2 and it's going to maintain a 2.
Have you touched it?
Come touch it.
(speaking in foreign language)
- Is there still fermentation? - No.
The goal is to avoid fermentation.
It's a very mechanical process, but with juice, not with the hand.
Could this type of practice be done to count the fermentation?
To count?
That is, let's say that we see that the fermentation is advanced and we want to count it,
but we could use...
[Spanish]
For you fermentation basically can end when the mucilage is gone?
That is for everyone to decide when is the end of fermentation.
So you can say when the mucilage is gone.
So there's basically no cure for...
No cure...
No, because there's... I mean, there's still a lot here.
But there's not any more barrier.
So you can stop it now and wash it, and there's no effect.
Or you can let it marinate and let some of these flavors get into the sea.
So you can stop it at 40 minutes, or you can stop it at 3 days.
That's your own personal decision when you're cupping.
So what I would do is guess and check.
You know, you do a little batch and you try it after 12 hours.
And then cup that coffee.
24 hours, cup that coffee.
48 hours, cup that coffee.
When do you usually go to the coffee?
Just straight away?
Just go over and call it?
And then say--
Get some feedback as soon as possible.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
But then it will be--
I mean, how are you going to dry this coffee?
put it on the beds. And just wait to some percentage, but then how much, for this volume it will be also like 10 days?
Yeah, you still have to wait. So you have to do all of them in advance, wait a month, get some feedback and then do another experiment.
So it can be really difficult if your season is really short because you might have to wait a whole year to do the next one.
Yeah.
Can you use this like that?
Uh, you can if the...
Yeah.
I mean the advantage is not making the mixture again,
so if you have more coffee tomorrow, or later today,
I would strain this and use the same high pH.
And go again.
So what I'm doing right now is I'm agitating it.
There's still some stubborn ones in here.
There's still, but there's a lot that are almost ready.
So, then we're going to...
[ Speaking Spanish ]
So, if you could do that for me, agitate and try to get as much of the mucilage off.
That's one of our goals.
That's what I'm going to do.
[ Speaking Spanish ]
(speaking in foreign language)
- And if you say, I need somebody else to do this.
- Uh oh.
- Matt, can you--
- Somebody behind you, not you.
- I'm afraid I'll be muscular.
- So stick your hand here,
you can put it closer to the edge.
Stick your hands in here.
I want a lot of agitation, just keep, keep, keep, keep.
Trying to get the knee to work out.
I'm agitating.
What you're saying is that in spite of all the years of reading, there's no such thing as overfermenting coffee.
No, and I have a whole slide about that. There's no such thing as overfermenting coffee.
Because that's all I've been taught since day one, that beware of overfermenting.
Yes, that's...
Horrid vinegars and...
Well, it's just a bad way to name it.
Yeah.
We'll talk about it. I remember my first call to you was, "How do I prevent overfermenting?"
- Yes.
(speaking in foreign language)
- But I mean, the citric acid,
can it come out into the bean or the--
- Eventually, eventually,
but we're doing this for less than one hour.
So there should not be any influence
of the citric on the coffee, all the way to the last.
- But if you put it for--
(speaking in foreign language)
because the lunch was ready, so we started eating and then we washed it later.
So to make the point clearer, I want to do it with less time to decide.
- Because we have to take out the...
- Yes, because some people said when they tried the coffee, "No, the coffee has other citrics."
And I said, "How? It's only six hours."
Nothing, no contact, so that the big one comes in.
[Spanish]
(speaking in foreign language)
We're going to wash it as soon as we can.
And then where are we going to wash this?
We're going to wash it and also...
So Sebas, this is almost ready to be washed.
So if you can, put it in the sink.
And dry it.
We're going to take the data from the yeast.
That too, but we have to prepare the lactic.
We need one more.
(speaking in foreign language)
Keep working until it's--
- Is there any danger of over rubbing them?
- No.
(laughing)
- I said I was afraid of that.
- No, you cannot over rub them.
So could you use a washing--
a washing--
A washboard?
A washboard, yeah.
You could.
[INAUDIBLE]
I think you could also just leave this more time.
If we left this for like an hour and a half,
it would just dissolve on its own.
So in the last workshop, I left it for six hours.
And that's what the coffee you're going to taste tomorrow.
And a lot of people were saying, oh, I taste the citric now.
And I'm like, no you don't.
It was only six hours.
Like, it's just kind of like in your head.
Like, six hours is very little time.
So to make the point more clear, I'm going to be like,
okay, this is 40 minutes.
You're not tasting the citric acid
in 40 minutes of this plus all the other.
So it's just to exaggerate how quickly.
- How many hours would it take to get the citric?
To actually--
- I think at least 12 hours to be able to penetrate.
That's most of the studies that I've seen,
do a minimum contact of 12 hours.
Temperature, pressure could also influence.
I think the alcohol, also the solvent,
makes it potentially a little bit more permeable.
But I really haven't seen that much.
Like, 12 hours is a pretty good standard.
Oops.
- Method for removing fermentation from cup.
Like, if you're just looking for cup quality
for inherent genetics.
- Exactly.
- You want to taste the seed, this is good.
So this is what I use to get just like varietal differences,
like a naked view of without a processing influence.
I'm just like, what am I starting with?
And then how would I tweak this varietal in which direction?
So this is just like a really quick,
you can also do this with a mechanical demucilogenator.
It removes it mechanically,
you try to have no fermentation,
but if you don't wanna buy the machine,
install the machine, just get the lemons,
remove the mucilage really quickly,
and you get some view of what's my coffee like.
(speaking in foreign language)
And maybe this tastes good.
Maybe you can just process your coffee in 30 minutes
and you don't have to do a hundred hour
fermentation and wait, right?
(speaking in foreign language)
It's like an option.
And have you ever found that this coffee is better than the other ones?
Yes, because the taste is different.
Some prefer this taste and some prefer something very...
Clean.
The flavor is cleaner too.
Cleaner.
But you never get over the flavor if you use, for example, orange juice, lemon juice.
I prefer lemon because there's less sugar.
So it could be that with orange, it depends on the time it's in contact.
Because yes, the sugar in the orange can give the fermentation.
But the goal of that is not to have fermentation.
It's to avoid that phase.
True.
So let's do the lactic really quick.
You guys keep going until...
Don't stop!
So we're going to throw this down and we throw the sugar.
Exactly.
This is a lactic.
This is going to be another process.
This is going to be dominated by bacteria, not by yeast.
But with yeast, we add commercial yeast.
I know that it is dominating yeast.
Here, this has everything.
So, to select the bacteria, we are going to add salt to eliminate the microbes that do not tolerate salt.
So, the microbes that produce lactic acid do tolerate salt.
It has a high tolerance.
So it's like a filter to help the bacteria, but it's not 100%.
The only 100% is what we did with the yeast, which is known and will dominate and will do all the fermentation.
So for the lactic, we're going to make a fermentation that is dominated by bacteria versus dominated by yeast.
And in the yeast, what we did is we selected the yeast, we grew it up, and we added the yeast.
So I know, I have a lot of confidence that the yeast is fermenting the tea.
Here for the bacteria, I'm not adding bacteria. I'm changing the environment.
I'm adding salt as like a filter. So the salt says
lactic acid bacteria that tolerate salt is welcome here and everybody else is not welcome here.
Because the salt is a good barrier, is a good screen for other microbes.
So we use salt as a sanitizer sometimes to lower the charge.
But here I want lactic acid bacteria to dominate.
So right now this is very different because I'm changing the environment.
I'm not adding bacteria.
So all I want to do is add like this.
Add just enough to cover it.
But I know I want about a 2% solution.
(speaking in foreign language)
I don't know.
I had heard before, when you inoculate, for example, that you want to put a certain microorganism that dominates the environment, right?
Is it good to disinfect the coffee first?
In this case?
That is, to leave it totally innocent and add so that you are sure that the bacteria or yeast that you have is the one that will grow or not?
(speaking in foreign language)
I don't do it because I know that...
- That there's more yeast load.
- Uh-huh.
A process like this, yes, it can be a good idea.
But it's an extra step, which for me is like,
even after tasting the coffee to see how it turned out,
not changing anything or not doing extra work
before knowing that it's necessary.
So first, I would do it as simple as possible,
taste, okay, I didn't like it, what can we change?
We can simplify, make it...
- And how would you do it?
(speaking in foreign language)
Potassium metabisulfite, sulfur dioxide.
for dioxide or dry ice.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
(speaking in foreign language)
and you drink the product that is fermented in the coffee.
No. So that question of sterilization is not so critical.
Lucía, could it be controlled in the subject of pH?
Lowering a pH that is not so drastic as to kill all fermentation,
but that allows, as we are controlling here, a specific lactic acid of fermentation?
Yes, I would lower it to 4, pH 4.5 with a little acid,
to lower that acidity, to kill the lactic acid, but not to completely prevent fermentation.
Could that even be combined with the use of a specific yeast that functions in that pH?
Yes, it could be, but many of the yeasts need time to adapt to this pH,
So if you lower the pH to 4 and then 1, the yeast will have a toxic environment and it can stress it.
So those yeasts that work at that temperature, at 1, are very rare.
Yes. For example, right now we use yeast that works universally with many proteins, with caffeine.
It's not better to know, well it's going to take longer, right?
I isolate and look at what yeast I have in my coffee, because it's going to be different in regions, in countries, in lots.
And I inoculate that same one, it's going to be more expensive.
Or it's not going to have exactly the same result.
No, it depends a lot on what's in the environment.
But that exercise of, well, you may have access to those laboratories, but not many producers.
No, entonces sería $5,000 solo para hacer el estudio.
Para mirar si es...
Para mirar qué hay.
Okay.
Sin saber si es bueno o malo.
Y después todo el trabajo en la mano de obra para mantener un starter que es puro.
¿Sabes? Es muy complicado y es mucho mano de obra.
Entonces, sí, muchos lo quieren hacer porque quieren hacer un inventario de puro.
Pero es muy ambicioso, ¿no?
Es muy ambicioso.
So yeah, so she's talking about what if we figure out what is kind of our fingerprint,
what is a signature of a particular place so that you have your own starter culture
and you grow up your own starter culture.
And they said, yes, it's great. It's very expensive to do that.
Not a lot of people have access to that.
And then to maintain a pure starter culture is very difficult
because it's constantly being contaminated.
So we're going to talk about that a little bit more.
But it's not a bad option, it's just not the most accessible option.
It's an option that's available to very few.
But if you can do it, I think it's great.
Is that starter culture, like a yeast starter or bacteria starter?
Well, it would have to be both because both yeast and bacteria are here.
So to be able to isolate just a yeast culture or just a bacterial starter culture from your environment.
What about like kombucha, right? The liquid part of the body, the end of the spoky, is that both bacteria and yeast down there?
It's mostly bacteria and the yeast is on top.
That's something we did last year, is we compared different kombuchas from different locations.
And then we made, it took about a year to make a new stable, but we used local fruit from right by the farm.
And they, I tried to capture the local bacteria and make kombucha.
That's a great idea.
And then, so we just had this giant tank of kombucha, like a spigot at the bottom.
And we would, you know, we had a lot of testing, but we had ideal temperatures, ideal percentages, ideal times.
And so we would just, you know, get a couple liters out of the, off the bottom of the tank.
And every week or so, we would just add more sugar water.
Oh cool, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then we'd keep that fed and that would work.
So it's...
So it is like, like, that local bacteria.
And that's not...
And so like, if...
Because we have a wet mill that we receive coffee from five different villages.
and we want each one to be distinct.
If we use the same inoculation, it would kind of make them all taste the same.
Of course, you want to highlight the differences.
So one of the things you want to do in the future is create, like,
do that same process of creating a local kombucha from whatever is local in that area.
And then, hopefully, as, you know, keep it kind of in a clean room environment
so that it doesn't get re-contaminated with other local whatever's in the air.
And so we would process each coffee from each village that comes to the wet mill separately
with its own version of kombucha.
Just like the inoculation.
I also have a question about this method because
I think the composure, I mean, to make it work, the pH should be a little bit low, right?
But when we started the inoculation, we just kind of diluted it, put some dilution, so the pH is going to be higher.
But so my question is, at the beginning of the fermentation, is it possible that it's
doing by the yeast and when the pH comes down, that bacteria just come back?
I don't know, just ask me.
Yes, so your pH is going to dictate what's working and it definitely can flip.
It can be at a higher pH, something is dominant, and at a lower pH, something else is dominant.
It's not that you can say first the yeast work and then the bacteria work, because the yeast have a much more developed cellular wall,
which means that they can withstand much lower pHs. So even though we associate the pH with bacteria,
with the yeast, with enough generations, they get stronger and they can actually out-compete the bacteria
because they're better adapted if you give them enough time.
So what you're saying could be true if you give it, I don't know, 12 hours,
but if maybe we have a longer fermentation,
then it can flip again, where you have maybe the yeast are dominating,
then the bacteria are dominating, and then it's so acidic
that now the yeast can dominate again because the bacteria are dying off
because they can't kind of pump out that.
So you can have this like flip-flop, depending on how much time.
Could we intentionally look for a type of fermentation
that is first with bacteria, then with yeast?
I mean, in beer, I know there are people who have experimented with that,
Instead of just making one yeast, they make a first concoction with one yeast and then make another one dominate.
Yes, but in beer they do it more with inoculation.
They are adding a yeast to it and then adding a bacteria.
It is very difficult to do it just by changing the environment, just by changing the temperature.
But for example, in the case of coffee, it could be done for a time without yeast, just with what is in the coffee.
coffee, I don't know how to say it, I don't know what is better.
And the next day, after 24 hours, adding the yeast,
probably they would dominate the fermentation from that moment.
Yes, and that's exactly what we did here, because we waited 24 hours,
almost, to add this yeast. It already has 24 hours of fermentation.
In cherry.
In cherry, and also a couple of hours that it started to sculpt,
until we add the yeast.
So we are talking with Brandon about that, that a double fermentation, one wild and one controlled,
that could be said.
It could be said.
It could be said, it's double fermentation.
But it could have an effect on the cup, right?
Yes, it will have an effect on the cup, 100%.
That fermentation that we are talking about 24 hours, is it the same as oxidation?
No. It also oxidized, but there is fermentation because there are microbes and there is sugar.
It's not the same.
Sometimes they work together, but it's not the same.
So is it practical to take a look under the microscope to see what is dominant right now?
Unless you have a really expensive microscope, you're really only going to be able to tell generalities.
You're not going to be able to identify species.
So unless you're very well trained, it's not going to be that helpful.
What you could use your microscope for is doing a cell count to see how many are active.
are active? What's my dosage? Do I have 100 units per gram per liter or do I have 10?
So are they alive and active or are they dead? But you wouldn't be able to identify species.
But have you just differentiated the yeast and bacteria? Can you separate these? Is it
possible? I just asked you. Yeast are much bigger than bacteria, so you could just do
it on size. You could say these guys are much bigger, usually like 6 to 10 times bigger,
you could say, okay, maybe more yeast than bacteria.
Yeah, you could do like a rough idea of size
and then amount, how many dots are you seeing
in your microscope?
How do you guys feel about these?
Are they mostly?
- Yeah, I mean, it's kind of dry.
- I have another quick question.
So like I'm doing an inoculation like that,
using like kombucha as the carrier
for my black-to-guts bacteria,
- Would I still need to add salt?
Just to keep it? - No.
- Or would that be enough to dominate?
- That's enough to dominate because you've already,
you've done the work of concentrating your starter.
This is starting at nothing.
So I'm doing the salt here 'cause it's the first time.
I could then take this water and use it tomorrow
and not add any more salt.
I could reuse kind of my batch,
but because we don't have anything going.
So you don't need to do that.
Let's go wash this.
Let's go over there.
[BLANK_AUDIO]